content/recipes/cast-iron-corn-dip.md, before:

+++
title = 'Cast-Iron Skillet Corn Dip'
date = 2024-06-04T09:23:00-07:00
draft = false
tags = ["Dip", "Corn", "Chese", "Vegetarian", "Mexican"]
thumbnail = "images/recipes/corn-dip.png"
+++

- SERVES 6-8
- TIME 40 minutes

## Ingredients

- 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided
- 4–6 ears corn, kernels cut from cobs (4 cups), divided
- 1 teaspoon table salt, divided
- 1 teaspoon MSG
- 4 garlic cloves, minced
- 3 scallions, sliced thin, divided
- 8 ounces cream cheese, cut into 8 equal pieces and softened
- 8 ounces pepper Jack cheese, shredded (2 cups), divided
- 1 cup mayonnaise
- 2 serrano chiles, stemmed, seeded, and sliced thin
- 2 tablespoons lime juice, plus lime wedges for serving
- 2 teaspoons chili powder
- 1 ounce cotija cheese, crumbled (¼ cup)
- ¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro
- Tortilla chips

## Instructions

1. Adjust oven rack 6 inches from broiler element and heat broiler. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in 12-inch cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat until just smoking. Add half of corn, sprinkle with ½ teaspoon salt, and spread corn into even layer. Cover and cook without moving corn until it begins to char, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to bowl. Repeat with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, remaining corn, and remaining ½ teaspoon salt. Once second batch of corn begins to char, stir in garlic and half of scallions and cook for 1 minute. Remove from heat.
2. Return first batch of corn to skillet with corn-scallion mixture. Stir in cream cheese, 1½ cups pepper Jack, mayonnaise, serranos, lime juice, and chili powder until evenly combined (cheese will begin to melt). Spread mixture into even layer and sprinkle with remaining ½ cup pepper Jack.
3. Broil until cheese is melted and spotty brown, about 2 minutes. Remove skillet from broiler and let cool for 5 minutes. Sprinkle with cotija, cilantro, and remaining scallions. Serve hot from skillet with tortilla chips and lime wedges.

***

## Before You Begin

A large ear of corn sh

Commit message:

Corn dip (#32)
* added churros
* added corn dip recipe
*added pan-fried-chicken-thighs.md
* updated corn-dip

content/recipes/cast-iron-corn-dip.md, after:

+++
title = 'Cast-Iron Skillet Corn Dip'
date = 2024-06-04T09:23:00-07:00
draft = false
tags = ["Dip", "Corn", "Chese", "Vegetarian", "Mexican"]
thumbnail = "images/recipes/corn-dip.png"
+++

- SERVES 6-8
- TIME 40 minutes

## Ingredients

- 2 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided
- 4–6 ears corn, kernels cut from cobs (4 cups), divided
- 1 teaspoon table salt, divided
- 1 teaspoon MSG
- 4 garlic cloves, minced
- 3 scallions, sliced thin, divided
- 8 ounces cream cheese, cut into 8 equal pieces and softened
- 8 ounces pepper Jack cheese, shredded (2 cups), divided
- 1 cup mayonnaise
- 2 serrano chiles, stemmed, seeded, and sliced thin
- 2 tablespoons lime juice, plus lime wedges for serving
- 2 teaspoons chili powder
- 1 ounce cotija cheese, crumbled (¼ cup)
- ¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro
- Tortilla chips

## Instructions

1. Adjust oven rack 6 inches from broiler element and heat broiler. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in 12-inch cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat until just smoking. Add half of corn, sprinkle with ½ teaspoon salt, and spread corn into even layer. Cover and cook without moving corn until it begins to char, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to bowl. Repeat with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, remaining corn, and remaining ½ teaspoon salt. Once second batch of corn begins to char, stir in garlic and half of scallions and cook for 1 minute. Remove from heat.
2. Return first batch of corn to skillet with corn-scallion mixture. Stir in cream cheese, 1½ cups pepper Jack, mayonnaise, serranos, lime juice, and chili powder until evenly combined (cheese will begin to melt). Spread mixture into even layer and sprinkle with remaining ½ cup pepper Jack.
3. Broil until cheese is melted and spotty brown, about 2 minutes. Remove skillet from broiler and let cool for 5 minutes. Sprinkle with cotija, cilantro, and remaining scallions. Serve hot from skillet with tortilla chips and lime wedges.

***

## Before You Begin

A large ear of corn should yield 1 cup of kernels, but if the ears you find are smaller, buy at least six. We prefer to use fresh corn in this recipe, but you can substitute 4 cups of thawed frozen corn; thaw frozen corn in a single layer on a dish towel– lined platter or baking sheet and pat dry before adding to hot oil in step 1. We like serrano chiles here, but you can substitute a jalapeño chile that has been halved lengthwise, seeded, and sliced ⅛ inch thick crosswise. For a spicier dip, do not seed the chiles.

## Why This Recipe Works

This recipe is inspired by esquites, a Mexican dish of grilled corn, mayonnaise, cheese, chile, and lime. We adapted these flavors into a hot, gooey, and delicious dip served in the cast-iron skillet the dish was made in. The skillet was key for getting good char on the corn kernels. It also kept the dip hot during serving. The bright and vibrant cilantro and scallions, along with the dusting of salty cotija cheese, gave the dip added flavor and enhanced its visual appeal and wow factor.

## Notes

I generally tripple everything to make it fit my 13 1/2" x 9 1/4" x 3 1/4" high interior lasana pan.

## References

### Source

[Source Link](https://www.americastestkitchen.com/recipes/15836)
