content/recipes/tofu-katsu.md, before:

+++
title = 'Tofu Katsu'
date = 2024-04-23T13:46:04-07:00
draft = false
tags = ["tofu", "vegetarian"]
+++

- SERVES Serves 4
- TIME 45 Minutes

## Ingredients

- 1 teaspoons table salt, divided
- 2 large eggs
- 2 tablespoons soy sauce
- 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
- 1½ cups panko bread crumbs
- 14 ounces extra-firm tofu, cut crosswise into 8 slabs
- ½ cup vegetable oil for frying
- ¼ cup bottled tonkatsu sauce, plus extra for serving

## Instructions

1. Set wire rack in rimmed baking sheet and line half of rack with triple layer of paper towels.
1. Whisk eggs, soy sauce, flour, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt together in shallow dish. Place panko in large zipper-lock bag and lightly crush with rolling pin; transfer to second shallow dish. Pat tofu dry with paper towels. Working with 1 tofu slab at a time, dredge in egg mixture, allowing excess to drip off, then coat all sides with panko, pressing gently to adhere. Transfer to unlined side of wire rack.
1. Heat oil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add tofu and cook until deep golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer to lined side of wire rack. Season cabbage salad with salt to taste. Serve tofu drizzled with tonkatsu sauce, passing extra sauce separately.

***

## Why This Recipe Works

We wanted a crispy tofu version of a Japanese favorite. To complement the crispy fried tofu, we served the tofu with a light cabbage salad with scallions and lemon. For ease, we used bottled tonkatsu sauce.
Tofu Katsu

## Before You Begin

We prefer the cabbage to be thinly sliced on a mandoline for the best presentation and texture. For a vegan version, substitute 6 tablespoons liquid plant-based eggs for the eggs. Serve with rice. 

[Source Link](https://www.americastestkitchen.com/recipes/15855-tofu-katsu)

Commit message:

Slight tweaks (#18)
* Added links to katsu and lemon slaw referncing each other
* Moved links to references

content/recipes/tofu-katsu.md, after:

+++
title = 'Tofu Katsu'
date = 2024-04-23T13:46:04-07:00
draft = false
tags = ["tofu", "vegetarian"]
+++

- SERVES Serves 4
- TIME 45 Minutes

## Ingredients

- 1 teaspoons table salt, divided
- 2 large eggs
- 2 tablespoons soy sauce
- 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
- 1½ cups panko bread crumbs
- 14 ounces extra-firm tofu, cut crosswise into 8 slabs
- ½ cup vegetable oil for frying
- ¼ cup bottled tonkatsu sauce, plus extra for serving

## Instructions

1. Set wire rack in rimmed baking sheet and line half of rack with triple layer of paper towels.
1. Whisk eggs, soy sauce, flour, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt together in shallow dish. Place panko in large zipper-lock bag and lightly crush with rolling pin; transfer to second shallow dish. Pat tofu dry with paper towels. Working with 1 tofu slab at a time, dredge in egg mixture, allowing excess to drip off, then coat all sides with panko, pressing gently to adhere. Transfer to unlined side of wire rack.
1. Heat oil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add tofu and cook until deep golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer to lined side of wire rack. Season cabbage salad with salt to taste. Serve tofu drizzled with tonkatsu sauce, passing extra sauce separately.

***

## Why This Recipe Works

We wanted a crispy tofu version of a Japanese favorite. To complement the crispy fried tofu, we served the tofu with a light cabbage salad with scallions and lemon. For ease, we used bottled tonkatsu sauce.
Tofu Katsu

## Before You Begin

We prefer the cabbage to be thinly sliced on a mandoline for the best presentation and texture. For a vegan version, substitute 6 tablespoons liquid plant-based eggs for the eggs. Serve with rice.

## References

## Goes good with

[Lemon Slaw]({{< ref "lemon-slaw.md" >}})

### Source

[Source Link](https://www.americastestkitchen.com/recipes/15855-tofu-katsu)
